# Background: Domain and Potential Users

## Domain

For my project, I propose to develop a metadata schema for describing
tabletop role-playing game (RPG) systems—that is, not games themselves, but
families of games defined by shared rules, design decisions, and in some
cases (e.g. Alder, n.d.[^alder-nd]) even theme and emotional tone. Some,
such as the d20 System[^wizards-2004] published by Wizards of the Coast as
a derivative of the long-running Dungeons & Dragons series, are rigidly
defined, intended and licensed for commercial use; others, such as Vincent
Baker’s Powered by the Apocalypse[^baker-2019], are more like philosophical
approaches to game design open for adoption and adaptation, in whole or in
part, by both amateur and professional designers.

Each system captures a set of design decisions and intentions that
differentiate the systems from one another while creating commonalities
among games based on the same system, and systems also are related to one
another both historically and structurally; these characteristics seem
amenable to capture and description in a controlled, structured way,
perhaps drawing on work such as that of Zagal and Deterding on gameplay
design patterns.[^zagal-2018] I myself am a dilettante when it comes to
RPGs, more of a collector than a player and more of an accumulator than a
collector, but I find the theory of game design and the history of games
and gaming interesting, and include among my friends many more serious
hobbyists, including some successful independent game designers.

Potential users of the metadata schema include game designers, scholars of
RPG studies (a growing field which now includes its own peer-reviewed
journals, such as the _International Journal of Role-Playing_[^ijrp-nd]
published by the Department of Game Design at Uppsala University),
developers of websites or databases collecting RPG information, and serious
bibliographers of RPGs (the last two categories likely having some
overlap). Some of these audiences might find the process of taxonomizing
systems and creating controlled vocabularies more valuable than the
documents produced; the schema would nonetheless facilitate doing so in a
structured way. Some of these audiences might find the schema useful for
(meta)data collection and analysis; others as an interchange format, or as
the basis for a display system; a URI-addressable reference database of RPG
systems might also be a linked data resource for other collections of
linked data on role- playing games and gaming.

---

[^alder-nd]: Alder, A. (n.d.) Belonging Outside Belonging. Buried Without Ceremony. [https://buriedwithoutceremony.com/belonging](https://buriedwithoutceremony.com/belonging)

[^wizards-2004]: Wizards of the Coast, Inc. (2004). Revised (v3.5) System Reference Document. [https://web.archive.org/web/20040414045127/http://www.wizards.com/default.asp?x=d20/article/srd35](https://web.archive.org/web/20040414045127/http://www.wizards.com/default.asp?x=d20/article/srd35)

[^baker-2019]: Baker, V. (2019, December 30). Powered by the Apocalypse, part 1. Lumpley Games. [https://lumpley.games/2019/12/30/powered-by-the-apocalypse-part-1/](https://lumpley.games/2019/12/30/powered-by-the-apocalypse-part-1/)

[^zagal-2018]: Zagal, J.P. & Deterding, S. (Eds.). (2018). _Role-playing game studies: Transmedia foundations_ (pp. 323–336). Routledge. 

[^ijrp-nd]: Department of Game Design, Uppsala University-Campus Gotland. (n.d.). About the Journal. _International Journal of Role-Playing._ [https://journals.uu.se/IJRP/about](https://journals.uu.se/IJRP/about)

